Docs updates for usage stats (#3393)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/docs/_shared/_collected-metrics.mdx

import Aside from 'src/components/Aside.astro';

## Overview

We college usage data from FusionAuth deployments to improve our product. This data helps us understand how you're using FusionAuth so that we can give you better features, tightened security, and tailored experiences.

FusionAuth collects high level metrics for all instances.

Collected metrics of this payload include:

-  a unique instance identifier
-  the total number of users
-  the total number of monthly active users
-  the total number of monthly logins
-  the number of nodes in the instance
-  the product version
-  the license Id (only for licensed instances with a plan)
-  the version of the metrics data (currently always version 1)

A self-hosted community user can disable network egress or block access to the metrics endpoint without affecting functionality.

Customers on a paid plan must allow a metrics connection [per the license agreement](/license), unless they have an air-gapped license.

### Detailed Metrics

<Aside type="version">
Available since 1.54.0
</Aside>

> As of version 1.54.0, we have started collecting further usage data. We're committed to being up front about the data that we collect and how we use it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of version 1.54.0, we collect additional usage data. 

We're committed to being up front about the data that we collect and how we use it, hence this document.
```

> Here's a sample JSON object showing what we collect:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a sample JSON object showing what we collect (click to expand):
```

    "webhookUserReactivate": 5,
    "webhookUserReactivateTransactional": 6,
    "webhookUserRegistrationCreate": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationCreateComplete": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationCreateTransactional": 6,
    "webhookUserRegistrationDelete": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationDeleteComplete": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationDeleteTransactional": 7,
    "webhookUserRegistrationUpdate": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationUpdateComplete": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationUpdateTransactional": 6,
    "webhookUserRegistrationVerified": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationVerifiedTransactional": 6,
    "webhookUserTwoFactorMethodAdd": 5,
    "webhookUserTwoFactorMethodRemove": 4,
    "webhookUserUpdate": 4,
    "webhookUserUpdateComplete": 4,
    "webhookUserUpdateTransactional": 6
  }
}
```
</details>

You can see here that we are collecting information about feature usage.

We will never collect anything personally identifiable about your users or customers. We may collect new metrics as we add new features, but those will be outlined in our release notes.

Here's the breakdown of what FusionAuth deployments which this feature will collect data from, and how it will happen:

> -   Self-hosted: You get to choose whether or not you want to share your data with us. You can turn usage data collection off by API, setup wizard, or in the admin UI, under XXX. You can also block the outbound request at the network--just block the hostname https://usage-stats.fusionauth.io. If you decide to share usage data, we will protect it.

Reviewer: XXX should be replaced with the path in the admin UI to turn off the stats gathering. Something like:

`<Breadcrumb>Settings -> Metrics</Breadcrumb>`

or whatever it is going to be.

Reviewer: I'm torn about `If you decide to share usage data, we will protect it.`. I know I asked you to change it last time. I can't figure out what the right wording is to convey that we'll protect it the same way we do all our other data.

Reviewer: Also, I'd change `Self-hosted: You get to choose` to `For those users who self-host FusionAuth, you can choose`

Author: Waiting for an answer on the first point. 

I think we drop that sentence. It reads a bit like "nice data...sure hope nothing happens to it."

Reviewer: Makes sense to me to drop the 'protect your data' sentence.

### How Does FusionAuth Ensure that My Customer Data Remains Private?

Your privacy, and that of your customers, is of the utmost importance to us. We have designed this system so that it only collects aggregated data, so that we do not see data on any one specific instance. Further, we do not collect any data that might reveal any information about your customers, such as webhook or OIDC URLs.

### Who Owns the Data that You Collect? Who Decides How that Data is Used?

The FusionAuth [license agreement](/license) covers the specifics of how we collect and use data. For more detailed information, please see the following sections:

> -   Section 2.1.6 covers self-hosting

Reviewer: I don't see how 2.1.6 covers self-hosting? That talks about auditing?

Author: I have no idea. In fact, I don't see anything in the licensing that covers how we use data collected from self-hosted instances.

import Aside from 'src/components/Aside.astro';
import Breadcrumb from 'src/components/Breadcrumb.astro';

## Overview

We college usage data from FusionAuth deployments to improve our product. This data helps us understand how you're using FusionAuth so that we can give you better features, tightened security, and tailored experiences.

FusionAuth collects high level metrics for all instances.

Collected metrics of this payload include:

-  a unique instance identifier
-  the total number of users
-  the total number of monthly active users
-  the total number of monthly logins
-  the number of nodes in the instance
-  the product version
-  the license Id (only for licensed instances with a plan)
-  the version of the metrics data (currently always version 1)

A self-hosted community user can disable network egress or block access to the metrics endpoint without affecting functionality.

Customers on a paid plan must allow a metrics connection [per the license agreement](/license), unless they have an air-gapped license.

### Detailed Metrics

<Aside type="version">

> Available since 1.54.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Available since 1.55.0
```

</Aside>

> As of version 1.54.0, we collect additional usage data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of version 1.55.0, we collect additional usage data. 
```

We're committed to being up front about the data that we collect and how we use it, hence this document.

Here's a sample JSON object showing what we collect (click to expand):

<details>
  <summary>Usage Stats - Example JSON Payload</summary>
``` 
{

>   "applicationVersion": "1.52.0",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "applicationVersion": "1.55.0",
```

    "webhookUserPasswordResetStart": 5,
    "webhookUserPasswordResetSuccess": 4,
    "webhookUserPasswordUpdate": 4,
    "webhookUserReactivate": 5,
    "webhookUserReactivateTransactional": 6,
    "webhookUserRegistrationCreate": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationCreateComplete": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationCreateTransactional": 6,
    "webhookUserRegistrationDelete": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationDeleteComplete": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationDeleteTransactional": 7,
    "webhookUserRegistrationUpdate": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationUpdateComplete": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationUpdateTransactional": 6,
    "webhookUserRegistrationVerified": 4,
    "webhookUserRegistrationVerifiedTransactional": 6,
    "webhookUserTwoFactorMethodAdd": 5,
    "webhookUserTwoFactorMethodRemove": 4,
    "webhookUserUpdate": 4,
    "webhookUserUpdateComplete": 4,
    "webhookUserUpdateTransactional": 6
  }
}
```
</details>

You can see here that we are collecting information about feature usage.

We will never collect anything personally identifiable about your users or customers. We may collect new metrics as we add new features, but those will be outlined in our release notes.

> Here's the breakdown of what FusionAuth deployments which this feature will collect data from, and how it will happen:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's the breakdown of which FusionAuth deployment this feature will collect data from, and how it will happen:
```

If you have questions or concerns, we're here to chat. Drop us an email at [devrel@fusionauth.io](mailto:devrel@fusionauth.io), or stop by the [FusionAuth Community forums](/community/forum/).

## Disabling Data Collection

> As outlined previously, users who self-host FusionAuth can disable data collection in three ways. If your instance is hosted on FusionAuth cloud, then usage stats collection is part of the cloud hosting package. In this section, we will show you what each option looks like in both the admin UI and the setup wizard. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As outlined previously, users who self-host FusionAuth can disable data collection in three ways. If your instance is hosted on FusionAuth Cloud, then usage stats collection is part of the cloud hosting package. In this section, we will show you what each option looks like in both the admin UI and the setup wizard. 
```

### Self Hosting

You may disable usage stats collection as part of the setup process. To do so, uncheck the box at the bottom of the screen as shown here:

> ![Disabling usage stats collection in self-hosted FusionAuth via the setup wizard](/img/docs/stats-setup-self.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Disabling usage stats collection in self-hosted FusionAuth via the setup wizard.](/img/docs/stats-setup-self.png)
```

In some cases, you may decide to disable stats collection at a later time. You may do so by navigating to <Breadcrumb>Settings -> System -> Analytics & Improvements</Breadcrumb> in the admin UI and then moving the toggle as pictured here:

> ![Disabling usage stats collection in self-hosted FusionAuth via the admin UI](/img/docs/stats-admin-self.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Disabling usage stats collection in self-hosted FusionAuth via the admin UI.](/img/docs/stats-admin-self.png)
```

### FusionAuth Cloud

> If you are using FusionAuth Cloud, you will not see the same options as users who self-host. Your setup wizard option to disable stats collection will be grayed out as seen here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using FusionAuth Cloud, you will not see the same options as users who self-host. Your setup wizard option to disable stats collection will be disabled:
```

> ![Grayed out checkbox option in FusionAuth setup wizard](/img/docs/stats-setup-facloud.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![The  disabled checkbox option in FusionAuth setup wizard.](/img/docs/stats-setup-facloud.png)
```

Within the admin UI, you'll see a message explaining that usage stats collection cannot be disabled on FusionAuth Cloud instances.

> ![Usage stats explanation for FusionAuth Cloud in the admin UI](/img/docs/stats-admin-facloud.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Usage stats explanation for FusionAuth Cloud in the admin UI.](/img/docs/stats-admin-facloud.png)
```
